Data stored in the cloud is typically
exposed to applications by two different
types of application programming interfaces,
also known as API's.
The rest API requires that a
client makes either a get post,
put Patch, or delete request to a
server and then receives a response.
This type of API is suitable for the server,
does not need to make requests to the client.
The Websocket API is an important evolution
for Internet of Things applications
in that it adopts a publish subscribe
relationship between server and client,
allowing servers to make requests to clients
for as long as the API remains authorized.
Clients are often web or native
applications that use these API's
to provide enhanced interfaces for
device users and application may
interface with numerous API's.
APIs provided internally May results
in applications differentiation
from other organisations.
APIs provided by other organisations
may be very useful,
but would usually involve a charge
and be an important partnership
to consider for the business.